Add new sharp-edge example: Drag around a cylinder (#1299)
chaos-polymtl/lethe: doc/source/examples/sharp-immersed-boundary/flow-around-particle-sharp/flow-around-particle-sharp.rst

Author: I would use a file name that has a clearer meaning here.

Reviewer: I don't know if filename length is an issue, but it could be clearer in the form of "flow-around-cylindrical-particle-with-sharp-interface" or "cylindrical-particle-drag-evaluation-with-sharp-interface"

Reviewer 2: "cylindrical-particle-drag-evaluation-with-sharp-interface", this one could be better imho

==============================================================================
Flow around a Finite Cylindrical Particle Using the Sharp Interface Method
==============================================================================

.. This example focuses on the drag coefficient validation for a perpendicular (theta = 90) cylindrical particle for low Reynolds [0.1, 1] and an aspect ratio of 2. 
.. A bigger parameter sweep could be documented in a future example.

----------------------------------
Features
----------------------------------

> - Solvers: ``lethe-fluid-sharp`` (with Q1-Q1) 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Solver: ``lethe-fluid-sharp`` (with Q1-Q1) 
```

- Steady-state problem
- Non-spherical particle in resolved flow
- Force calculation validation

---------------------------
Files Used in This Example
---------------------------

> - Parameter file: ``examples/sharp-immersed-boundary/flow-around-particle-sharp/flow-around-particle-sharp.prm``

Reviewer: It should now be there

------------------------
Description of the Case
------------------------

This example showcases the use of sharp immersed boundary conditions to model geometries of non-spherical shapes in flow, in this case a cylindrical particle perpendicular to the flow. 

> This example focuses on small cylindrical particles (:math:`Ar = L/D = 2`) at low Reynolds numbers ranging from 0.1 to 1. To validate the simulation results, the derived drag coefficient is 

Reviewer: Should be a lot clearer with the schematic

compared to the expected results from the litterature. 

.. image:: images/flow-around-particle-sharp-case.png
    :alt: Simulation schematic
    :align: center

---------------
Parameter File
---------------

Mesh
~~~~

> The geometry, as shown in the previous figure, is fully defined by the particle's geometry. The mesh is first defined coarsely away from the particle with elements of size :math:`L \times L \times L` with :math:`L = 2`. 

Reviewer: True, I made it clearer that it was the size of the channel that depends on the particle size and not the geometry itself.

We then make use of a ``box refinement`` to refine the mesh around the particle and properly evaluate the flow field and the wake with elements of size :math:`0.25D \times 0.25D \times 0.25D` with :math:`D = 1`.

.. code-block:: text 

    subsection mesh
        set type                   = dealii
            set grid type          = subdivided_hyper_rectangle

>             set grid arguments     = 2,1,1 : -24,-16,-16 : 40,16,16 : true

Reviewer: The domain size is 32L x 16L x 16L with L = 2, it should be better explained now with the help of the schematic and the text specifically references it.

            set initial refinement = 4
        end

    subsection box refinement 
        set initial refinement = 3
        subsection mesh
            set type               = dealii
            set grid type          = subdivided_hyper_rectangle
            set grid arguments     = 2,1,1: -6,-4,-4 : 10,4,4 : true
            set initial refinement = 0
        end
    end

> IB Particles

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Immersed Boundary Particles
```
it makes it clearer

~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> We define the particle in flow with the use of the sharp immersed boundary method. The particle is defined as a cylinder with a radius of 0.5 and a half-length of 1.0. The particle is centered at (0,0) 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We define the particle in flow using the sharp immersed boundary method. The particle is defined as a cylinder with a radius of 0.5 and a half-length of 1.0. The particle is centered at (0,0) 
```

Reviewer 2: Indicate the variable name (radius (r), half-length)...

> and oriented perpendicularly to the flow. The ``local mesh refinement`` is set to 3 to ensure a fine mesh and properly resolve the boundary layer flow around the particle.

Reviewer 2: What is perpendicular to what here?

Reviewer: The cylinder is perpendicular to the flow, maybe it will be clearer with the schematic now. I restate it here as we orient the particle in the prm file in order to make it perpendicular.

> and oriented perpendicularly to the flow. The ``local mesh refinement`` is set to 3 to ensure a fine mesh and properly resolve the boundary layer flow around the particle.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and oriented perpendicularly to the flow. The ``local mesh refinement`` is set to 3 to ensure we have a fine mesh to resolve  properly the boundary layer flow around the particle.
```
not sure it is much better but "to ensure a fine mesh" did not sound nice to me

Reviewer: Indeed you're right, I reworked it , tell me what you think

.. code-block:: text

    subsection particles
        set number of particles                     = 1
        set assemble Navier-Stokes inside particles = false
        subsection extrapolation function
            set stencil order = 2
            set length ratio  = 1
        end
        subsection local mesh refinement
            set initial refinement                = 3
            set refine mesh inside radius factor  = 0.75
            set refine mesh outside radius factor = 2
        end
        subsection particle info 0
            set type            = cylinder
            set shape arguments = 0.5;1.0
            set integrate motion = false
            subsection position
                set Function expression = 0;0;0
            end
            subsection orientation
                set Function expression = 1.5707963267948966;0;0
            end
        end
    end

Boundary Conditions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> We define the boundary conditions similarly to :doc:`../../incompressible-flow/3d-flow-around-sphere/flow-around-sphere` although, in our case, we won't need a boundary condition defined on the particle as the sharp immersed boundary method will take care of it.à

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We define the boundary conditions similarly to the :doc:`../../incompressible-flow/3d-flow-around-sphere/flow-around-sphere` example although, in our case, we won't need a boundary condition defined on the particle as the sharp immersed boundary method will take care of it.
```

.. code-block:: text

    subsection boundary conditions
        set number = 5
        subsection bc 0
            set id   = 0
                set type = function
            subsection u
                set Function expression = 1
            end
            subsection v
                set Function expression = 0
            end
            subsection w
                set Function expression = 0
            end
        end
        subsection bc 1
            set id   = 2
            set type = slip
        end
        subsection bc 2
            set id   = 3
            set type = slip
        end
        subsection bc 3
            set id   = 4
            set type = slip
        end
        subsection bc 4
            set id   = 5
            set type = slip
        end
    end

Physical Properties
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In order to produce a varying Reynolds number, we vary the kinematic viscosity of the fluid. We define the Reynolds number as :math:`Re = \frac{UD}{\nu}` where :math:`U` and :math:`D` are fixed at 1. Therefore, 

> the kinematic viscosity is defined as :math:`nu = \frac{1}{Re}`. The following block defines the viscosity for a Reynolds number of 1.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the kinematic viscosity is defined as :math:`\nu = \frac{1}{Re}`. The following block defines the viscosity for a Reynolds number of 1.
```

.. code-block:: text

    subsection physical properties
        subsection fluid 0
            set kinematic viscosity = 1
        end
    end

Simulation Control
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

With the Reynolds number ranging from 0.1 to 1, the simulation can easily be solved by using a steady-state solver. The mesh is sufficiently refined to capture the flow around the particle and therefore doesn't 

> require any mesh adaptation.

Reviewer 2: If you solve a steady-state you can't have mesh adaptation, no?

.. code-block:: text

    subsection simulation control
        set method            = steady

>         set number mesh adapt = 2

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        set number mesh adapt = 2
```
why is this line necessary?

Reviewer 2: Also, can you remove the default entries in this section?

        set output path       = ./
        set output name       = out
        set output control    = iteration
        set output frequency  = 1
        set subdivision       = 1
    end

---------------
Results
---------------

> The simulation of this case results in the following solution for the velocity and pressure field.

Author: ```suggestion
We obtain the following solution for the velocity and pressure:
```

Velocity:
 
.. image:: images/flow-around-particle-sharp-velocity.png
    :alt: Velocity field around the particle
    :align: center

Pressure: 

.. image:: images/flow-around-particle-sharp-pressure.png
    :alt: Pressure field around the particle
    :align: center

> The drag coefficient is calculated for each Reynolds number using the following formula:

Author: ```suggestion
The drag coefficient :math:`C_d` is:
```

.. math::

    C_d = \frac{F_d}{0.5 \rho U^2 D} = \frac{2f_x}{U^2 D}

> Where :math:`F_d` is the drag force, :math:`\rho` is the fluid density, :math:`U` is the velocity, and :math:`D` is the diameter of the particle. The drag force is calculated as the force applied 

Reviewer 2: What is rho equal to in this problem?

Reviewer: Rho is not specifically defined in this case. The only property we define is the kinematic viscosity. I use the output f_x from lethe which I believe corresponds to F_x/rho.

on the particle in the flow direction, in this case using :math:`f_x` from the output.

> The following graph shows the drag coefficient as a function of the Reynolds number. The results are compared to the litterature values for a perpendicular cylinder with an aspect ratio of 2.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following graph shows the drag coefficient as a function of the Reynolds number. The results are compared to the literature values for a perpendicular cylinder with an aspect ratio of 2.
```

.. image:: images/flow-around-particle-sharp-pressure.png
    :alt: Drag coefficient as a function of Reynolds number
    :align: center

----------------------------
Possibilities for Extensions
----------------------------

> - To further validate the simulation results, the drag coefficient could be compared to the litterature for a wider range of Reynolds numbers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- To further validate the simulation results, the drag coefficient could be compared to the literature for a wider range of Reynolds numbers.
```

- It would be interesting to investigate the switch from inline to perpendicular flow for the particle and the effect on the drag coefficient. This could be done by varying the orientation of the particle in flow.

> - It would be interesting to investigate the effect of the finite size of the particle on the drag coefficient. This could be done by varying the aspect ratio of the particle.

Author: what is an inline flow?

Reviewer: I meant to say that the particle was inline with the flow (inline cylinder). I changed it to particle aligned with the flow to make it clearer.

> - It would be interesting to investigate the switch from inline to perpendicular flow for the particle and the effect on the drag coefficient. This could be done by varying the orientation of the particle in flow.
> - It would be interesting to investigate the effect of the finite size of the particle on the drag coefficient. This could be done by varying the aspect ratio of the particle.

Author: ```suggestion
- It would be interesting to investigate the switch from inline to perpendicular flow for the particle and the effect on the drag coefficient. This could be done by varying the orientation of the particle in flow.
- It would be interesting to investigate the effect of the aspect ratio of the particle on the drag coefficient. 
```

----------------------------------
Features
----------------------------------

- Solver: ``lethe-fluid-sharp`` (with Q1-Q1) 
- Steady-state problem
- Static non-spherical particle
- Force calculation validation

---------------------------
Files Used in This Example
---------------------------

- Parameter file: ``examples/sharp-immersed-boundary/flow-around-particle-sharp/flow-around-particle-sharp.prm``

------------------------
Description of the Case
------------------------

This example showcases the use of sharp immersed boundary conditions to simulate flow around non-spherical objects, in this case a cylindrical particle perpendicular to the flow. 

This example focuses on cylindrical particles of small aspect ratio :math:`Ar` (:math:`Ar = L/D = 2`) at low Reynolds numbers ranging from 0.01 to 5. To validate the simulation results, the drag coefficient is 
compared to the expected results from the literature. 

.. image:: images/flow-around-particle-sharp-case.png
    :alt: Simulation schematic
    :align: center

---------------
Parameter File
---------------

Mesh
~~~~

> As shown in the previous figure, the flow around the partice is modelled using a prismatic channel which size depends on the size of the particle. In this case, we consider a particle with a diameter of :math:`D = 1`, therefore we have :math:`L = 2`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As shown in the previous figure, the flow around the particle is modelled using a prismatic channel which size depends on the size of the particle. In this case, we consider a particle with a diameter of :math:`D = 1`, therefore we have :math:`L = 2`. 
```

> As shown in the previous figure, the flow around the partice is modelled using a prismatic channel which size depends on the size of the particle. In this case, we consider a particle with a diameter of :math:`D = 1`, therefore we have :math:`L = 2`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As shown in the previous figure, the flow around the partice is modelled using a prismatic channel whose size depends on the size of the particle. In this case, we consider a particle with a diameter of :math:`D = 1`, therefore we have :math:`L = 2`. 
```

Reviewer 2: I am not 100% sure this is correct but it feels more natural

Reviewer: Yeah it bugged me too when I wrote it at first! I think "... a prismatic channel **the size of which** depends ..." is more applicable here

The domain, of size :math:`32 L \times 16 L \times 16 L`, was found to produce results independant of domain sizes with a low computational cost. 

> The mesh is first defined coarsely away from the particle with elements of size :math:`L \times L \times L`. The particle is positionned at :math:`3/8` of the domain length avoid boundary interactions and allow the flow to develop both behind and in front of the particle.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The mesh is first defined coarsely away from the particle with elements of size :math:`L \times L \times L`. The particle is positionned at :math:`3/8` of the domain length to avoid boundary interactions and allow the flow to develop both behind and in front of the particle.
```

    subsection particles
        set number of particles                     = 1
        set assemble Navier-Stokes inside particles = false
        subsection extrapolation function
            set stencil order = 2
            set length ratio  = 1
        end
        subsection local mesh refinement
            set initial refinement                = 3
            set refine mesh inside radius factor  = 0.75
            set refine mesh outside radius factor = 2
        end
        subsection particle info 0
            set type            = cylinder
            set shape arguments = 0.5;1.0
            set integrate motion = false
            subsection position
                set Function expression = 0;0;0
            end
            subsection orientation
                set Function expression = 1.5707963267948966;0;0
            end
        end
    end

Boundary Conditions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

We define the boundary conditions similarly to the :doc:`../../incompressible-flow/3d-flow-around-sphere/flow-around-sphere` example although, in our case, we won't need a boundary condition defined on the particle as the sharp immersed boundary method will take care of it.

> The domain makes use of an inlet velocity of :math:`1~m/s` on the left, slip boundary conditions parallel to the flow direction, and and an outlet with :math:`p = 0` on the right of the domain. In our case, the outlet boundary condition is the same as the natural boundary condition can therefore be left unchanged as Lethe will apply it by default.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The domain makes use of an inlet velocity of :math:`1~m/s` on the left, slip boundary conditions parallel to the flow direction, and an outlet with :math:`p = 0` on the right of the domain. In our case, the outlet boundary condition is the same as the natural boundary condition can therefore be left unchanged as Lethe will apply it by default.
```

> The domain makes use of an inlet velocity of :math:`1~m/s` on the left, slip boundary conditions parallel to the flow direction, and and an outlet with :math:`p = 0` on the right of the domain. In our case, the outlet boundary condition is the same as the natural boundary condition can therefore be left unchanged as Lethe will apply it by default.

Reviewer 2: There is a word missing in the last sentence. It can even be a period because the sentence is already long

the kinematic viscosity is defined as :math:`\nu = \frac{1}{Re}`. 

Note that this definition of the Reynolds number depends only on the particle's diameter, not its length. We select this parameter because it primarily governs the flow regime around the particle.
The following block defines the viscosity for a Reynolds number of 1:

.. code-block:: text

    subsection physical properties
        subsection fluid 0
            set kinematic viscosity = 1
        end
    end

Simulation Control
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

With the Reynolds number ranging from 0.01 to 5, the simulation can easily be solved by using a steady-state solver. The mesh is sufficiently refined to capture the flow around the particle and therefore doesn't 
require any mesh adaptation.

.. code-block:: text

    subsection simulation control
        set method            = steady
        set output path       = ./particle_drag/
    end

---------------
Results
---------------

We obtain the following solution for the velocity and pressure:

Velocity:
 
.. image:: images/flow-around-particle-sharp-velocity.png
    :alt: Velocity field around the particle

>     :align: center

Reviewer 2: If you've got time to re-do the figures, please use a non-diverging scheme for the colormap. Maybe it could be interesting to visualize the streamlines instead of velocity glyphs.

Pressure: 

.. image:: images/flow-around-particle-sharp-pressure.png
    :alt: Pressure field around the particle

>     :align: center

Reviewer 2: It is very small, can you zoom on the area of interest

The drag coefficient :math:`C_d` is:

.. math::

    C_d = \frac{F_d}{0.5 \rho U^2 A} = \frac{2f_x}{U^2 L D}

Where :math:`F_d` is the drag force, :math:`\rho` is the fluid density, :math:`U` is the velocity, and :math:`A` is the projected area :math:`(A = LD)`. In Lethe, we solve for :math:`f = F/\rho`. Therefore, the drag force is calculated as the force applied 
on the particle in the flow direction using :math:`f_x` from the simulation output.

The following graph shows the drag coefficient as a function of the Reynolds number. The results are compared to the literature values for a perpendicular cylinder with an aspect ratio of 2.

.. image:: images/flow-around-particle-sharp-CD-Re-study.png
    :alt: Drag coefficient as a function of Reynolds number
    :align: center

> Here we show the drag models of Vakil and Green [1] and Hölzer and Sommerfeld [2] for comparison. Vakil's drag model is specifically made for cylinders in flow of Reynolds from 1 to 40, whereas Hölzer's model is meant to be more general for non-spherical particles defined by their sphericity in all flow regimes.

Reviewer 2: Please add the references at the bottom of the example, see others examples to see how it is done.

From the graph, we show good agreements with Vakil's model for Reynolds numbers ranging from 1 to 5. For values not covered by Vakil's model, we can see that the drag follows a similar trend to Hölzer's model.

> The difference with Hölzer's model can be explained by the fact that it is very hard to produce a precise drag model that encompasses all particle geometries in all flow regimes. As such, errors are expected, but it gives a very good ballpark approximation for non-spherical particles.

Reviewer 2: I learnt a knew expression today, thanks!

        end
    end

Immersed Boundary Particles
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

We define the particle in flow using the sharp immersed boundary method. The particle is defined as a cylinder with a radius of :math:`D/2 = 0.5` and a half-length of :math:`L/2 = 1.0`. The particle is centered at :math:`(0,0,0)` 
and the cylider's axis is oriented perpendicularly to direction of the flow. 

The ``local mesh refinement`` is set to 3 to ensure we resolve the boundary layer flow around the particle with elements of size :math:`1/32 D \times 1/32 D \times 1/32 D`.

.. code-block:: text

    subsection particles
        set number of particles                     = 1
        set assemble Navier-Stokes inside particles = false
        subsection extrapolation function
            set stencil order = 2
            set length ratio  = 1
        end
        subsection local mesh refinement
            set initial refinement                = 3
            set refine mesh inside radius factor  = 0.75
            set refine mesh outside radius factor = 2
        end
        subsection particle info 0
            set type            = cylinder
            set shape arguments = 0.5;1.0

>             set integrate motion = false

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

This is not in the .prm file anymore

Reviewer: Good point, I'll add it to the prm as it should be there!

The domain makes use of an inlet velocity of :math:`1~m/s` on the left, slip boundary conditions parallel to the flow direction, and an `outlet` boundary condition, corresponding to :math:`p = 0`, at the right of the domain.

.. code-block:: text

    subsection boundary conditions
        set number = 6
        subsection bc 0
            set id = 0
            set type = function
            subsection u
                set Function expression = 1
            end
            subsection v
                set Function expression = 0
            end
            subsection w
                set Function expression = 0
            end
        end
        subsection bc 1
            set id = 1
            set type = outlet
        end
        subsection bc 2
            set id = 2
            set type = slip
        end
        subsection bc 3
            set id = 3
            set type = slip
        end
        subsection bc 4
            set id = 4
            set type = slip
        end
        subsection bc 5
            set id = 5
            set type = slip
        end

>     end

Reviewer 2: Please use the prmindent tool (lethe/lethe/contrib/utilities/prmindent) to indent the entries of this subsection correctly (both in the .rst file and the .prm file)

Physical Properties
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In order to produce a varying Reynolds number, we vary the kinematic viscosity of the fluid. We define the Reynolds number as :math:`Re = \frac{UD}{\nu}` where :math:`U` and :math:`D` are fixed at 1. Therefore, 
the kinematic viscosity is defined as :math:`\nu = \frac{1}{Re}`. 

Note that this definition of the Reynolds number depends only on the particle's diameter, not its length. We select this parameter because it primarily governs the flow regime around the particle.
The following block defines the viscosity for a Reynolds number of 1:

.. code-block:: text

    subsection physical properties
        subsection fluid 0
            set kinematic viscosity = 1
        end
    end

Simulation Control
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> With the Reynolds number ranging from 0.01 to 5, the simulation can easily be solved by using a steady-state solver. The mesh is sufficiently refined to capture the flow around the particle and therefore doesn't 
> require any mesh adaptation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With the Reynolds number ranging from 0.01 to 5, the simulation can easily be solved by using a steady-state solver. The mesh is sufficiently refined to capture the flow around the particle and therefore doesn't require any mesh adaptation.
```

.. code-block:: text

    subsection simulation control
        set method            = steady
        set output path       = ./particle_drag/
    end

---------------
Results
---------------

We obtain the following solution for the velocity and pressure:

Velocity:
 
.. image:: images/flow-around-particle-sharp-velocity.png
    :alt: Velocity field around the particle
    :align: center

Pressure: 

.. image:: images/flow-around-particle-sharp-pressure.png
    :alt: Pressure field around the particle
    :align: center

The drag coefficient :math:`C_d` is:

.. math::

    C_d = \frac{F_d}{0.5 \rho U^2 A} = \frac{2f_x}{U^2 L D}

> Where :math:`F_d` is the drag force, :math:`\rho` is the fluid density, :math:`U` is the velocity, and :math:`A` is the projected area :math:`(A = LD)`. In Lethe, we solve for :math:`f = F/\rho`. Therefore, the drag force is calculated as the force applied 
> on the particle in the flow direction using :math:`f_x` from the simulation output.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Where :math:`F_d` is the drag force, :math:`\rho` is the fluid density, :math:`U` is the velocity, and :math:`A` is the projected area :math:`(A = LD)`. In Lethe, we solve for :math:`f = F/\rho`. Therefore, the drag force is calculated as the force applied on the particle in the flow direction using :math:`f_x` from the simulation output.
```
